# Interlude-2
  What is the main message of this model? What themes connect the various lectures/presentations/activities?
  
This module focuses on play and how there are social contracts between players and games. We talked about how we as society learn things from play. This is an interesting point because this can be seen from early childhood. Children learn social rules from playing with other children like sharing and taking turns. As you grow up and use more advanced games you can then learn things like critical thinking and problem solving. These games are seen as a unique tool that can be used to preserve societal values. You can preserve a game and then analyze the goals to see what the creator was trying to teach the player at that specific time. 
  Another mian message that was introduced in the Nguyen reading is that games rely on goals and obstacles that need to be overcome. Play is an interesting concept because it is not meaningless like some people may think. Our lectures used the example of monopoly. The play of this game means nothing if you just hold all the money in your hand and have all the properties. You need the obstacles of other players and the goal of beating them to make the play meaningful. Nguyen makes an interesting point that can be seen throughout our lectures. They outline that we must distinguish the difference between the goal of a game and the purpose of playing.

How can we play history?

	 Through this module I learned that we can play history using alternative reality games. We talked about the example of the email that was sent out to university students asking for their help. I found it interesting that the point of this activity was to create an experimental and subversive way of exploring historical research methods. I think it would be interesting to use this technique for teaching highschool history. This would be beneficial for younger students to have a more hands-on learning experience.
	We can also analyze how we play history using the historical problem space. I think it is interesting to analyze this framework using the game minecraft. This is because the game can take so many different shapes. It can be seen as a walking simulator, adventure game, building game, or a survival game. The game resembles a medieval time period. The tools in the game, including materials, swords, stone ovens are used to keep the player alive. This allows for the player to learn about medieval practices through experience and trial and error. It makes it possible to experience challenges people in these times may have faced. With that being said it's important to point out the fantasy aspect of the game. There are realistic obstacles in the game like starvation and injury but then there are also mystic creatures. In this game the goal is to beat the Ender Dragon but the purpose can take many different forms showing how we can use games to play history

What are the most surprising things about this module?

	The most surprising thing about this module that has really stuck with me is the concept that games now are the result of the games that didn't get made. To put this in other words, current games are lacking perspectives from women and marginalized groups. The world of games is dominated by the white male. This could contribute to the large male audience that plays games. Games tell people what to do and what to be so it makes sense that men would enjoy the games because their values and interests are reflected in the games. I can connect this idea to movies. I find it clear when a movie is created by a man or woman. There is a big difference between storytelling done by men and women. I tend to gravitate towards movies created by women because I have a better connection to the themes and ideas portrayed in the movie. I would be interested in seeing how games would differ if they were created by women with the female perspective in mind.

Mini reflection on Nothing Besides Remains.

	This game was extremely frustrating. When I first played it I did not understand the point at all. I walked around aimlessly running into things. I did not see the point in the game so I got frustrated and turned it off. In the next class when we revisited the game and analyzed it using the historical problem space I gained a new appreciation for the game. I learned that the point of the game was to try and see how the civilization failed. With that in mind I attempted the game again and really enjoyed it. This just reinforced the importance of analyzing games using the historical problem space and that without goals or purpose games are meaningless. 
